Docs: Adding an article aggregating information related to TypeScript (#13800)
ckeditor/ckeditor5: docs/installation/working-with-typescript.md

Reviewer: * Some headers contain a blank line between them and paragraphs, and some do not.
* Some sections are separated by two blank lines, some with a single one.

Could we unify it?

---
# Scope:
# * Introduction to TypeScript in CKEditor 5
# * List and clarify the things that need attention when using TypeScript.

category: installation

> order: 29

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
order: 29
menu-title: TypeScript support
```

modified_at: 2023-03-29
---

> # TypeScript support

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# TypeScript support in CKEditor 5
```

> CKEditor 5 is built using TypeSript and so has native types definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CKEditor 5 is built using TypeSript. This means it has native type definitions.
```

Reviewer: Why wouldn't we accept this proposal? It looks and sounds good.

Author: I was extending this section and then forgot to add this correction. I'll add it.

<info-box hint>

> Using TypeScript is just an option so if you don't need its features you can continue using CKEditor 5 in JavaScript.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using TypeScript is just an option. If you don't need its features, you can continue using CKEditor 5 in JavaScript.
```

</info-box>

> ## Why to use CKEditor 5 with TypeScript?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Reasons to use CKEditor 5 with TypeScript
```

Author: Let's leave "Why" for now. The "Reasons" sound like we need to prove that it's worth using TypeScript. I'm a fan of listing reasons, but in this case, it may backfire as the reasons may vary depending on the context of use.

> Using TypeScript you're getting autocomplete for CKEditor 5 APIs. It helps to produce clean and maintainable code. It may be especially beneficial if you're developing your plugins and using CKEditor 5 Framework intensively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using TypeScript comes with some advantages:

* It helps produce clean and maintainable code.
* It introduces code autocompletion and type suggestions for CKEditor 5 APIs.
* If you're developing custom plugins and using CKEditor 5 Framework intensively, the TypeScript compiler will help you catch common type errors and increase the code quality.
```

> ## Setup

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## CKEditor 5 TypeScript setup
```

> Running the editor doesn't differ much when using Typescript compared to the JavaScript environment. You may consider using type assertion or type casting to satisfy the TypeScript compiler.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running CKEditor 5 doesn't differ much when using Typescript compared to the JavaScript environment. You may consider using type assertion or type casting to satisfy the TypeScript compiler.
```

### Running the editor
Here is an example of the classic editor build initialization:

```ts
import ClassicEditor from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic'

const editorPlaceholder = document.querySelector( '#editor' ) as HTMLElement;

ClassicEditor.create( editorPlaceholder ).catch( error => {
  console.error( error );
} );
```

<info-box warning>

> Custom builds produced by online builder do not provide types yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Custom builds produced by the online builder do not provide types yet.
```

</info-box>

### Integrating CKEditor 5 from source in your TypeScript project

> If you want to integrate CKEditor 5 directly in your TypeScript project then please follow the instructions for integrating from source using webpack and Vite.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to integrate CKEditor 5 directly in your TypeScript project, follow the instructions for integrating from source using webpack and Vite:
```

* {@link installation/advanced/integrating-from-source-webpack Integration from source using webpack}

> * {@link installation/advanced/integrating-from-source-vite Integrarion from source using Vite}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* {@link installation/advanced/integrating-from-source-vite Integration from source using Vite}
```

## Developing plugins using TypeScript

> CKEditor 5's API can be quite extensive and complex, but using TypeScript can make it easier to work with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CKEditor 5 API is robust and complex. Using TypeScript can make it easier to work with thanks to code autocompletion and type suggestions in your IDE.
```

---
# Scope:
# * Introduction to TypeScript in CKEditor 5
# * List and clarify the things that need attention when using TypeScript.

category: installation
order: 29
modified_at: 2023-03-29
---

# TypeScript support

CKEditor 5 is built using TypeSript and so has native types definition.

<info-box hint>
Using TypeScript is just an option so if you don't need its features you can continue using CKEditor 5 in JavaScript.
</info-box>

## Why to use CKEditor 5 with TypeScript?

Using TypeScript you're getting autocomplete for CKEditor 5 APIs. It helps to produce clean and maintainable code. It may be especially beneficial if you're developing your plugins and using CKEditor 5 Framework intensively.

## Setup

Running the editor doesn't differ much when using Typescript compared to the JavaScript environment. You may consider using type assertion or type casting to satisfy the TypeScript compiler.

### Running the editor

Here is an example of the usage of the classic build of CKEditor 5

> ``` js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ts
```

import ClassicEditor from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-build-classic'

const editorPlaceholder = document.querySelector( '#editor' ) as HTMLElement;

ClassicEditor.create( editorPlaceholder ).catch( error => {
  console.error( error );
} );
```

<info-box warning>
Custom builds produced by online builder do not provide built-in type definitions yet.
</info-box>

### Integrating CKEditor 5 from source in your TypeScript project

If you want to integrate CKEditor 5 directly in your TypeScript project, follow the instructions for integrating from source using webpack and Vite:

* {@link installation/advanced/integrating-from-source-webpack Integration from source using webpack}
* {@link installation/advanced/integrating-from-source-vite Integration from source using Vite}

## Developing plugins using TypeScript

CKEditor 5's API is extensive and complex, but using TypeScript can make it easier to work with.

You can use {@link framework/package-generator/typescript-package package generator} to scaffold TypeScript-based plugins.

> 

Reviewer: Please, remove this space.
